We just took an in-depth look at the difference between the Mainnet and the Testnet.
Throughout this program, we'll be using the Testnet to build our application.
Before fully committing to this network,
it's important to also understand what the Regnet is.
We thought it might be helpful to lay out a comparison between these two networks,
then justify why we've chosen to use the Testnet for application.
In this video, we'll compare the Testnet and the Regnet to get
a better understanding of what the differences
are that exists between these two networks.
As we know, the Testnet is
a development environment meant to allow developers to test their application.
An alternative network known as the Regnet is also a local testing environment.
The difference is that on the Regnet,
developers can almost instantaneously generate blocks on demand for testing.
They can create private coins with no real-world value.
For our comparison, we'll run down the list of these eight characteristics.
First, for each of these networks,
the purpose is for testing applications.
Nothing here is connected to the main live network,
they're just tools for development.
Even though they're both retesting,
there is a major distinction between these two networks.
While the Testnet is
a public test environment with transactions that are broadcasted throughout the network,
the Regnet is completely private and transactions are only seen on your local computer.
This is possible because there are no peers on the Regnet.
Transactions do not go through validation and
there are no peers whose transactions you'll interact with.
This lack of transactions means that the size is very small in comparison to the Testnet.
On the Regnet, you can only download
the core components necessary to run the application,
and it only grows in size as you create more blocks and transactions yourself.
That's much different than the Testnet where you
have to sync to the network and download the blocks.
Since there are no peers and there's no validation,
blocks aren't going through
the same transaction lifecycle on the Regnet as they do in other networks.
Instead, on the Regnet,
you can generate any number of blocks instantaneously,
reducing the block time to zero.
In both the Testnet and the Regnet,
their coins have no value.
However on the Regnet,
it hasn't had the same problem with people trying to sell their coins as the Tester
has and that's because even though both are worthless coins,
the Regnet coins aren't even connected to
a network that you could try to sell them even if you wanted to.
Either way, don't try to sell either of these coins, they're just for testing.
Another similarity between these networks is that the public keys are
preceded with an m or n to differentiate them from the Mainnet.
Finally as we mentioned,
blocks on the Regnet are created instantaneously.
Since there are no nodes and no hashing,
there's also no block difficulty.
That wraps it up for some of the differences between
these two networks across these characteristics.
There are times that you'll want to use
the Testnet and other times where the Regnet is better suited.
It's actually common to hear that the Regnet is
a better environment for testing applications.
It's true that it does allow you to do
some things much faster than when using the Testnet.
But we've chosen to move forward with the Testnet for a very specific reason.
We've chosen the Testnet because we're doing more than developing on the blockchain.
We're developing a Web service that takes
user input to test and verify transactions from users.
Since we'll be testing these applications with
the Web service and collecting user information,
we'll need to be able to interact with these users.
For that reason, we're choosing to stick with
the Testnet even though it's a little slower in some cases.
Hopefully now you have a better idea of what
the Testnet is used for and what the Regnet is used for,
and why we are using the Testnet as our testing environment.